README.md, before:

# Pixie-Net XL Software

The Pixie-Net Xl Software provides users an interface to configure and acquire data from a Pixie-Net
XL device. The software can be compiled locally and run from the project root directory. We also
provide the ability to create a Debian package for easy installation onto Debian based Linux
systems.

Firmware files for the Kintex FPGAs are provided separately from this distribution. You can download
these files from our [Public File Browser](http://files.xia.com/#hardware/pixie/pixie-net-xl/).
Users will need to ensure that the FPGA firmware files are installed into the root level of this
project. The Pixie-Net XL User's Manual is available
from [here](http://files.xia.com/#hardware/pixie/pixie-net-xl/documentation/).

## Dependencies

You will need to have at minimum the following dependencies installed on your system:

* gcc
* python 3.6+
* GNU make

## Installation

There are two methods to install the software.

### Installation from source

This is the traditional method for installation. In this case, you simply need to download the
repository and ensure that the project root directory is `/var/www`. Then you'll build the software
using the instructions below.

#### Building

The software's build system is GNU make. You can build the software using the following command in
the project root directory:

```shell
root@PixieNet:~/pixie-net-xl-software#make
```

### Installation via debian package

We've created a [Debian package](http://files.xia.com/#hardware/pixie/pixie-net-xl/software/) to
help ease installation of the software. Once the package is on your system. You can install it with

```shell
root@PixieNet:~#dpkg -i pixie-net-xl_X.Y.Z_armhf.deb
```

Where X.Y.Z is the version number.

**Note:** You should modify `/etc/xia/pixie-net-xl/defaults.ini` to ensure that the correct
parameters load during system boot. Once you make the update, either reboot your system or execute

```shell
systemctl restart pixie-net-init.service
```

This will execute `bootfpga` and load the information from `/etc/xia/pixie-net-xl/defaults.ini` and
`/etc/xia/pixie-net-xl/settings.ini`

## PixieNet Control

Pixie-Net Control or `pncontrol` is an interactive command-line program that allows control of a
Pixie-Net XL. The program can be used over a TCP connection to remotely configure the system and
start data runs. **The program does not save any changes. You are responsible for this.**

### Command line Arguments

```
root@PixieNet:~# pncontrol -h
pnc [options]
Options and arguments:
 -h          : help (also --help)
 -V          : print version and exit (also --version)
 -v          : verbose, can supply multiple times
               to increase verbosity (also --verbose)
 -c file     : fippi default config (default: defaults.ini)
 -u path     : IO device (default: /dev/uio0)
```

### Command prompt

`pnconrtol` provides an interactive command prompt. It supports arrow keys, home, end and history.
To exit `pncontrol` enter `^D` or Ctrl-D.

```
root@PixieNet:~# pncontrol -c /etc/xia/pixie-net-xl/defaults.ini
pnet #
```

`pncontrol` is ready to accept a command then the prompt is displayed.

### Remote connections

We use systemd to enable TCP communication with the system. To enable this support you should either

1. install [the Debian package](http://files.xia.com/#hardware/pixie/pixie-net-xl/software/)
2. or install the systemd scripts located in `<project root>/systemd/system`.

Once configured the system will be listening on port `31057`. You can connect to the remote session
via telnet or other appropriate method. **Note: Each invocation of `pncontrol` starts with defaults
provided in `/etc/xia/pixie-net-xl/defaults.ini`. Users will be expected to override these defaults
if they are not suitable.**

We recommend using this configuration only with `DATA_FLOW=4` and `RUN_TYPE=0x404`.

#### Telnet example

```shell
user@localhost:~/>telnet X.X.X.X 31057
Trying X.X.X.X...
Connected to X.X.X.X.
Escape character is '^]'.
Pixie Net Control 1.0
 defaults: /etc/xia/pixie-net-xl/defaults.ini
 user-io:  /dev/uio0
 editing:  false
pnet #
```

Where you replace `X.X.X.X` with the actual IP of the Pixie-Net XL in the telnet command.

### Commands

`pncontrol` recognizes a number of commands. A command has a general format of:

```
command [options] [cmds ...] [options]
```

You need to check each command to see the specific options and commands. Not all commands support
options. Options start with a `-`. A `cmd` is the command line option that does not have a `-`.

A command finishes with `ok` to indicate a success. It will end with `error: message` to indicate
failure. You will need to investigate error messages to determine the failure's cause.

#### `help`

Display a simple help. Some commands support a more detailed help by issuing the command with `-h`.

```
pnet # help
  status Status, try 'status -h'
     set Set a configuration value
    help Print the help
    exit Exit the program
     run Run control, try 'run -h'
  report Report the configuration
 program Program the FIPPI. Use -v for verbose
```

#### `set`

The `set` command sets a parameter. You can list the parameters with the `-l` option:

```
pnet # set -l
```

The list will indicate is the parameter requires a single or multiple options and the type. To set a
parameter enter the parameter and the value or values. **Note**: You must execute `program` to apply
the settings to the FPGAs.

```
pnet # set UDP_PAUSE 100
ok
pnet # program
```

You can optionally add the `-v` option:

```
pnet # set  -v UDP_PAUSE 100
UDP_PAUSE <= 100
ok
pnet # program
```

#### `run`

The `run` command starts and stops a run. Subsequent calls provide users with basic run information.

```
pnet # run start
ok
pnet # run
run: RUNNING period:1.72701s files:(data:c:0,i:0,s:437 mca:1,i:88790,s:0)
pnet #
```

#### `report`

The `report` command reports the current parameter settings. The output can be used to create a new
configuration file.

```
pnet # report
ANALOG_GAIN             1.6 1.6 1.6 1.6 1.6 1.6 1.6 1.6 1.6 1.6 1.6 1.6 ....
AUX_CTRL                1
BASELINE_PERCENT        5.0 5.0 5.0 5.0 5.0 5.0 5.0 5.0 10.0 10.0 10.0 ...
 ...
```

#### `status`

The `status` command reports the status the PixieNet.

```
pnet # status
{ParameterCo:"TOTAL_TIME",Controller:49011.4,ParameterSy:"RUN_TIME",System0:42802.7,System1:42802.7,ParameterCh:"COUNT_TIME",Channel0:42802.7,Channel1:42802.7,Channel2:42802.7,Channel3:42802.7,Channel4:42802.7,Channel5:42802.7,Channel6:42802.7,Channel7:42802.7},
{ParameterCo:"PS_CODE_VERSION",Controller:"0x313",ParameterSy:"--",System0:0,System1:0,ParameterCh:"INPUT_COUNT_RATE",Channel0:   0,Channel1:   0,Channel2:   0,Channel3:   0,Channel4:   0,Channel5:   0,Channel6:   0,Channel7:   0},
{ParameterCo:"ACTIVE",Controller:"1",ParameterSy:"--",System0:0,System1:0,ParameterCh:"OUTPUT_COUNT_RATE",Channel0:   0,Channel1:   0,Channel2:   0,Channel3:   0,Channel4:   0,Channel5:   0,Channel6:   0,Channel7:   0},
{ParameterCo:"CSROUT",Controller:"0xE001",ParameterSy:"CSROUT",System0:"0x2000",System1:"0x2000",ParameterCh:"COUNTTIME",Channel0:22053,Channel1:22938,Channel2:23803,Channel3:24663,Channel4:27551,Channel5:28411,Channel6:29276,Channel7:30141},
{ParameterCo:"reserved",Controller:"0xBE00",ParameterSy:"sysstatus",System0:"0x0",System1:"0x0",ParameterCh:"COUNTTIME",Channel0:47289,Channel1:47289,Channel2:47289,Channel3:47289,Channel4:47289,Channel5:47289,Channel6:47289,Channel7:47289},
{ParameterCo:"reserved",Controller:"0x7",ParameterSy:"MEM_I_CNT",System0:"0x0",System1:"0x0",ParameterCh:"COUNTTIME",Channel0:1245,Channel1:1245,Channel2:1245,Channel3:1245,Channel4:1245,Channel5:1245,Channel6:1245,Channel7:1245},
ok
```

Commit message:

PIXIE-53: Updating README.md based on WH's suggestions
Now explicitly denote what firmware files to use with what software versions.

Explicitly call out that the commands listed are the same as those to use in code.

Document the program command in the same manner as all the others.

README.md, after:

# Pixie-Net XL Software

The Pixie-Net Xl Software provides users an interface to configure and acquire data from a Pixie-Net
XL device. The software can be compiled locally and run from the project root directory. We also
provide the ability to create a Debian package for easy installation onto Debian based Linux
systems.

Firmware files for the Kintex FPGAs are provided separately from this distribution. You can download
these files from our [Public File Browser](http://files.xia.com/#hardware/pixie/pixie-net-xl/).
Users will need to ensure that the FPGA firmware files are installed into the root level of this
project. The Pixie-Net XL User's Manual is available
from [here](http://files.xia.com/#hardware/pixie/pixie-net-xl/documentation/).

## Dependencies

You will need to have at minimum the following dependencies installed on your system:

* gcc
* python 3.6+
* GNU make

### Firmware support list
| Software Revision | Firmware | Notes |
|---|---|---|
| <ul><li>1.0.0</li><li>0x313</li></ul> | PNXLK7B_DB06_16_250_10G.bin  |   |

## Installation

There are two methods to install the software.

### Installation from source

This is the traditional method for installation. In this case, you simply need to download the
repository and ensure that the project root directory is `/var/www`. Then you'll build the software
using the instructions below.

#### Building

The software's build system is GNU make. You can build the software using the following command in
the project root directory:

```shell
root@PixieNet:~/pixie-net-xl-software#make
```

### Installation via debian package

We've created a [Debian package](http://files.xia.com/#hardware/pixie/pixie-net-xl/software/) to
help ease installation of the software. Once the package is on your system. You can install it with

```shell
root@PixieNet:~#dpkg -i pixie-net-xl_X.Y.Z_armhf.deb
```

Where X.Y.Z is the version number.

**Note:** You should modify `/etc/xia/pixie-net-xl/defaults.ini` to ensure that the correct
parameters load during system boot. Once you make the update, either reboot your system or execute

```shell
systemctl restart pixie-net-init.service
```

This will execute `bootfpga` and load the information from `/etc/xia/pixie-net-xl/defaults.ini` and
`/etc/xia/pixie-net-xl/settings.ini`

## PixieNet Control

Pixie-Net Control or `pncontrol` is an interactive command-line program that allows control of a
Pixie-Net XL. The program can be used over a TCP connection to remotely configure the system and
start data runs. **The program does not save any changes. You are responsible for this.**

### Command line Arguments

```
root@PixieNet:~# pncontrol -h
pnc [options]
Options and arguments:
 -h          : help (also --help)
 -V          : print version and exit (also --version)
 -v          : verbose, can supply multiple times
               to increase verbosity (also --verbose)
 -c file     : fippi default config (default: defaults.ini)
 -u path     : IO device (default: /dev/uio0)
```

### Command prompt

`pnconrtol` provides an interactive command prompt. It supports arrow keys, home, end and history.
To exit `pncontrol` enter `^D` or Ctrl-D.

```
root@PixieNet:~# pncontrol -c /etc/xia/pixie-net-xl/defaults.ini
pnet #
```

`pncontrol` is ready to accept a command then the prompt is displayed.

### Remote connections

We use systemd to enable TCP communication with the system. To enable this support you should either

1. install [the Debian package](http://files.xia.com/#hardware/pixie/pixie-net-xl/software/)
2. or install the systemd scripts located in `<project root>/systemd/system`.

Once configured the system will be listening on port `31057`. You can connect to the remote session
via telnet or other appropriate method. **Note: Each invocation of `pncontrol` starts with defaults
provided in `/etc/xia/pixie-net-xl/defaults.ini`. Users will be expected to override these defaults
if they are not suitable.** 

The commands listed in the following section are the same commands used to control the system in a 
TCP session. You'll need to ensure that you submit a `\n` character with the command to execute.

We recommend using this configuration only with `DATA_FLOW=4` and `RUN_TYPE=0x404`.

#### Telnet example

```shell
user@localhost:~/>telnet X.X.X.X 31057
Trying X.X.X.X...
Connected to X.X.X.X.
Escape character is '^]'.
Pixie Net Control 1.0
 defaults: /etc/xia/pixie-net-xl/defaults.ini
 user-io:  /dev/uio0
 editing:  false
pnet #
```

Where you replace `X.X.X.X` with the actual IP of the Pixie-Net XL in the telnet command.

### Commands

`pncontrol` recognizes a number of commands. A command has a general format of:

```
command [options] [cmds ...] [options]
```

You need to check each command to see the specific options and commands. Not all commands support
options. Options start with a `-`. A `cmd` is the command line option that does not have a `-`.

A command finishes with `ok` to indicate a success. It will end with `error: message` to indicate
failure. You will need to investigate error messages to determine the failure's cause.

#### `help`

Display a simple help. Some commands support a more detailed help by issuing the command with `-h`.

```
pnet # help
  status Status, try 'status -h'
     set Set a configuration value
    help Print the help
    exit Exit the program
     run Run control, try 'run -h'
  report Report the configuration
 program Program the FIPPI. Use -v for verbose
```

#### `set`

The `set` command sets a parameter. You can list the parameters with the `-l` option:

```
pnet # set -l
```

The list will indicate is the parameter requires a single or multiple options and the type. To set a
parameter enter the parameter and the value or values. **Note**: You must execute `program` to apply
the settings to the FPGAs.

```
pnet # set UDP_PAUSE 100
ok
pnet # program
```

You can optionally add the `-v` option:

```
pnet # set  -v UDP_PAUSE 100
UDP_PAUSE <= 100
ok
pnet # program
```

#### `program`
This command will upload the settings to the FPGAs and the system will then be ready to take data. 

```shell
pnet # program
Note RUN_TYPE = 0x404 is currently only supported for 10G interface
WR Ethernet data checksum FPGA 0 (SHORT) = 0xf7d1
WR Ethernet data checksum FPGA 0 (LONG)  = 0xf551
WR Ethernet data checksum FPGA 1 (SHORT) = 0xf7d2
WR Ethernet data checksum FPGA 1 (LONG)  = 0xf552
 PXdesk board temperature: 34 C
 Main board Revision 0xA161, Serial Number 2007
ok
pnet #
```

#### `run`

The `run` command starts and stops a run. Subsequent calls provide users with basic run information.

```
pnet # run start
ok
pnet # run
run: RUNNING period:1.72701s files:(data:c:0,i:0,s:437 mca:1,i:88790,s:0)
pnet #
```

#### `report`

The `report` command reports the current parameter settings. The output can be used to create a new
configuration file.

```
pnet # report
ANALOG_GAIN             1.6 1.6 1.6 1.6 1.6 1.6 1.6 1.6 1.6 1.6 1.6 1.6 ....
AUX_CTRL                1
BASELINE_PERCENT        5.0 5.0 5.0 5.0 5.0 5.0 5.0 5.0 10.0 10.0 10.0 ...
 ...
```

#### `status`

The `status` command reports the status the PixieNet.

```
pnet # status
{ParameterCo:"TOTAL_TIME",Controller:49011.4,ParameterSy:"RUN_TIME",System0:42802.7,System1:42802.7,ParameterCh:"COUNT_TIME",Channel0:42802.7,Channel1:42802.7,Channel2:42802.7,Channel3:42802.7,Channel4:42802.7,Channel5:42802.7,Channel6:42802.7,Channel7:42802.7},
{ParameterCo:"PS_CODE_VERSION",Controller:"0x313",ParameterSy:"--",System0:0,System1:0,ParameterCh:"INPUT_COUNT_RATE",Channel0:   0,Channel1:   0,Channel2:   0,Channel3:   0,Channel4:   0,Channel5:   0,Channel6:   0,Channel7:   0},
{ParameterCo:"ACTIVE",Controller:"1",ParameterSy:"--",System0:0,System1:0,ParameterCh:"OUTPUT_COUNT_RATE",Channel0:   0,Channel1:   0,Channel2:   0,Channel3:   0,Channel4:   0,Channel5:   0,Channel6:   0,Channel7:   0},
{ParameterCo:"CSROUT",Controller:"0xE001",ParameterSy:"CSROUT",System0:"0x2000",System1:"0x2000",ParameterCh:"COUNTTIME",Channel0:22053,Channel1:22938,Channel2:23803,Channel3:24663,Channel4:27551,Channel5:28411,Channel6:29276,Channel7:30141},
{ParameterCo:"reserved",Controller:"0xBE00",ParameterSy:"sysstatus",System0:"0x0",System1:"0x0",ParameterCh:"COUNTTIME",Channel0:47289,Channel1:47289,Channel2:47289,Channel3:47289,Channel4:47289,Channel5:47289,Channel6:47289,Channel7:47289},
{ParameterCo:"reserved",Controller:"0x7",ParameterSy:"MEM_I_CNT",System0:"0x0",System1:"0x0",ParameterCh:"COUNTTIME",Channel0:1245,Channel1:1245,Channel2:1245,Channel3:1245,Channel4:1245,Channel5:1245,Channel6:1245,Channel7:1245},
ok
```
